ST10441362
Ethan Matthew Naidoo                                                                               
IMAD Assignment 1 – History App 
Report


General Information: 
This is a report based on my experience and difficulties that I had encounter on whilst coding, designing and submitting my History App. My app took about 2 hours to code and design, after finishing the code and before testing out the app, I realised there were some errors that has prevented me from running my app. After finding those errors and making the necessary adjustments I found that my app was working just the way I wanted it to. When I was happy with my app, the way it looked and the layout of it, I decided to push my code through GitHub for submission. Upon submission I had failed a few times trying to push my code through to GitHub. After roughly 5 attempts I managed to get it right and all I had to do was wait for my green tick to appear. When using my app and depending on the ages that you input you will encounter on some famous people that you may know of whom had passed on. Second to last, I had started to prepare for the YouTube video that I had to upload regarding my History App and its functionality. In my YouTube video I ran my History App to show the audience how the app works and how to use it. Overall, I was pleased to say that everything went well with the app from the coding, design and submission even though there were a few altercations, I still managed to get everything working the way I wanted it to and submit the assignment. The app simply works by inputting a age between 20 and 100 in intervals of 10 and pressing the search button, after pressing the search button the age that you inputted will display the famous person that passed away at that age and something about them. After reading, you can proceed to press the clear button to remove the age that you input, and information displayed to try a new age. If you enter any age below 20 and above 100 the app will prompt you with an error message stating that you are over or below the ages.


The purpose of my History App: 
The purpose of my History App that I have coded and designed from scratch is to educate those about famous people who had passed on between the ages of 20 through 100 moving in intervals of 10. My app has important information about the people displayed. The information is accurate and well trusted. My app serves to provide users with easy access to historical facts, figures and famous people. It allows users to explore the different facts about different people and see how they had an effect and what reputation they held. A main factor of my app is to understand the power of celebrity influence, famous people/celebrities may serve as role models and sources of inspiration, often influencing the way teenagers may think, act and carry themselves. The purpose of creating a Historical App on famous people, is to help position the minds of the target market in forming a positive connection. History is backed with a lot of knowledge and understanding as well as facts that we still learn about today, I believe that my app will educate one just by interacting with the app. One of the reasons why I had chosen the famous people that are displayed in my app is because those people had a significate role that each one of them played back then. 


Design considerations of my App: 
When designing my History App, the design was an important role that had to be executed in a reputable manner. When I was designing my app, I had to take user-friendly interaction into consideration as I want those who interact with my History App to be easy and able to locate their way through the app.  The app has a two-tone brown background to give it the historic look. Along with the background of the app there are two buttons, 1 editText, 1 plainText, these buttons will assist in the interaction with the app. The search button requires you to input an age between 20 to 100 in intervals of 10 ONLY and when you do so, the famous person that’s assigned to the age will display, showing their name and some information about them. The clear button will remove the age input and the information given. The app is strictly designed to give information based on famous people between the age of 20 to 100, any number below the age of 20 and above the age of 100 will result in a message displaying stating that you must enter an age between 20 and 100 only. My app is fully compatible with android devices as I have tested it out with a personal device of mine, the app rubs smoothly with no errors and provides the necessary information if the user does the right thing by inputting the correct data to receive the correct result. The app has a user-friendly interface that you can interact with, with ease. 



The use of GitHub:
After thorough checks and running my code multiple times to make sure that everything was working the way I wanted it to, I had submitted my app through GitHub, the process was slightly complicated, but after a few attempts I managed to get it done correctly. After waiting for a few minutes, I was relieved to see the green tick. Working with GitHub to submit your projects, assignments are not too complicated but there are a lot of steps involved just to get your project through without encountering any difficulties. Using GitHub allowed me to create, store, change merge and collaborate with my code. Now that I have submitted my code through GitHub my lecturer can access and view everything through the GitHub repository, like a folder with files. My lecturer can make edits or changes that others can see. GitHub assisted me in hosting code for version control and collaboration. With the use of GitHub to submit my code, it makes it easier for me as the developer to push it through for the end user who is my lecturer to check for any errors, make adjustments/changes and view what I have done. My overall experience with GitHub was moderate and I do believe that it’ll improve as I work more with it soon.


Facts on the famous people used in my History App:
*(The ages are the numbers on the left, 20-100) *
20 -> "Christopher Wallace, known better as The Notorious B.I.G. or Biggie Smalls, left a lasting legacy in the world of rap, yet he only released a single album in his lifetime."
30 -> "Princess Diana was a member of the British royal family. She was the first wife of Charles, Prince of Wales, and the mother of Prince William and Prince Harry."
40 -> "Nate Dogg was born on August 19, 1969 in Long Beach, California, USA."
50 -> "Steven Paul Jobs, he was the founder of Apple."
60 -> "Garry Shandling, he was a writer and actor."
70 -> "Bruce Lee, remains the greatest icon of martial arts cinema and a key figure of modern popular media."
80 -> "Muhammad Ali, he was a famous boxing star."
90 -> "Loretta Lynn, was a American singer-songwriter."
100 -> "Henry Alfred Kissinger, was an American diplomat, political scientist, geopolitical consultant, and politician who served as United States secretary of state and national security advisor."
